# Image-classification_skin-lesions
Skin lesion analysis is important in medicine. It collects healthcare data from patients through hospital visits, medical research. The reason for collecting this data is that it allows to discover and analyze statistics about the disease in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases. Accurate analysis of the obtained data helps in the early diagnosis of diseases. Accurate analysis of data, such as malignant pigment lesions, is useful in the early diagnosis of skin cancer, so that some measures can be taken to destroy the cancer and the risk of death can be reduced. With semi- or fully-automatic computer-aided diagnostic systems, analysis can be done through machine learning, which will create a framework to help doctors communi- cate objectively, help reduce and decrease mortality rates, increase clinical reliability. In this way, diseases can be identified more easily and costs can be reduced further. A machine learning algorithm that can classify both malignant and benign pigmented skin lesions is a step in the right direction towards delivering these benefits. In this study, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) were used to detect cancerous skin lesions as early as possible and to classify skin lesions in dermoscopic images in the most appropriate way. CNNs are fully connected feed forward neural networks. CNNs are very effective in reducing the number of parameters without losing on the quality of models. Images have high dimensionality . In order to perform fine-granied analysis, 2 different CNN models were used for seven pigment lesion classes. The models used for this are CNN architecture and ResNet152V2. CNN model and VGG16 models were used to determine whether the skin lesion was malignant or benign.The models were compared after training the data using the metrics. The data set used in this study is “The HAM10000 data set is a large collection of multi-source dermoscopic images of common pigmented skin lesions”.
The data set has large class imbalances.
A similar work was carried out by Rifat Edizkan in February 2021 in order to detect the skin cancer in a timely and accurate manner and to increase the probabil- ity of success of the treatment. Computer aided diagnostic applications were used for the classification of skin cancer. A two-class dataset consisting of dermoscopic images from the ISIC archive was used. Classification of benign and malignant skin cancer has been made and it is aimed to increase the success rate with the correct early diagnosis. For this, color sharpening, edge detection and noise reduction preprocesses were applied to dermoscopic images. Inception V2 model was used in the study. As a result of the study; With the preprocessing step, the success rate was increased by 3.33 points and the accuracy rate was obtained as 88.66%.

